# Dynamic Recitation V2

Dynamic Recitation is a course management service designed to allow for effective management of large recitations. The first version software was  developed by Joseph Boyle while a student at Rutgers University, and employed in the Introduction to Computer Science (CS111) course as a pilot program. During this time, the system was used as a research tool, and was presented at the ACM's 50th Special Interest Group for Computer Science Education (SIGCSE) as [Dynamic Recitation: A Student-Focused, Goal-Oriented Recitation Management Platform](https://dl.acm.org/citation.cfm?id=3293859):

> Computer science universities and colleges around the nation are experiencing large growth in enrollments. To maintain in-person interaction with students, large courses typically include multiple recitations, each led by a Teaching Assistant (TA). Students in each group struggle with various course content, and these weaknesses are best evaluated by the TAs working closely with the students. TAs, however, have only a superficial understanding of education theory, and instructors must closely monitor and evaluate the content of recitations. Existing instruction management systems can be used to organize course-wide content, but, to our knowledge, none of them operate at the granularity of recitations. This poster presents Dynamic Recitation, an open-source platform through which TAs and instructors can create and share practice problems and lesson plans tagged with the learning objectives that they cover. The poster illustrates the interface offered to the TAs for creating problems, designing lesson plans for individual sections, and submitting feedback about student progress. It shows examples of lesson plans created in the system, as well as reports that can be used to identify elements that promote desired learning objectives and refine recitations.

While in use at Rutgers University, the version 1 prototype has seen usage by over 3000 users. It was built as a frameworkless PHP application over a two year period. Following generally positive reception, we decided a second version should be developed. Rutgers made use of other FOSS systems, such as [Autolab](https://github.com/autolab/autolab), and as such, it felt appropriate to give back to the educational community with a FOSS version of Dynamic Recitation.
